Documentation refresh for PGv2 (#171)
protocolguild/documentation: docs/03-onchain-architecture.md

> # 3. Smart Contract Architecture

Reviewer: I would add a table (section?) here which clearly maps each contract name with their address (rather than an inline link) and perhaps a note, e.g.

| Contract | Address | ENS | Note| 
|---|---|---|---|
| Vesting | 0x... | vesting.pg.eth |  **Default donation address for Protocol Guild** |
| PassThrough | ... | ... | Used by DAO to redirected vested funds in case of malicious donations | |
....

Reviewer: We should also have a second table with all the L2 addresses!

The split contract itself also serves as the Guild’s onchain membership registry of Ethereum’s active L1 R&D maintainers, while a [Moloch v3 DAO](https://admin.daohaus.club/#/molochv3/0x1/0x412a32dd71357bd12337f4408168df903f90cbd3/members) is used to ratify changes to the membership onchain.

## 3.1 Modules

The Guild’s smart contract architecture is modularized as follows:

<img width="1000" alt="OnchainArchitecture" src="https://github.com/cheeky-gorilla/membership/assets/76262359/66cb927d-6e12-4255-9e9f-04f5d6eb676e">

### Vesting Contract

- Contract address: [0x25941dc771bb64514fc8abbce970307fb9d477e9](https://app.splits.org/accounts/0x25941dc771bb64514fc8abbce970307fb9d477e9/)

> - Official documentation: [https://docs.splits.org/core/vesting](https://docs.splits.org/core/vesting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Splits reference documentation: [https://docs.splits.org/core/vesting](https://docs.splits.org/core/vesting)
```

> The Guild’s donation address is an immutable vesting contract which trustlessly vests donated funds over 4 years. Here, trustlessly means donations cannot be stopped or otherwise redirected during the vest by the donor or the recipient once sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Guild’s donation address is an immutable vesting contract which irrevocably vests donated funds on a linear, block-by-block, basis over 4 years. Here, "irrevocably" means donations **cannot** be stopped or otherwise redirected during the vest by anyone, be it the donor or Protocol Guild membership.
```

> Anyone can donate ETH and ERC-20 tokens to the vesting contract on mainnet, though NFT donations are not supported - standard NFT transfers (safeTransfer) will be rejected by the contract (i.e. meaning the transaction will fail), while non-safeTransfer NFT donations will be lost.

Reviewer: I would split this in two sentences and emphasize the NFT point with bold fonts.

**How it works:**
- Donated tokens will accrue in a per-asset queue until a vesting stream is started for that batch of tokens, by triggering the `startStream` function (permissionless, as in any actor can trigger this function, regardless of whether they are a Guild member)
- Once the vesting stream is started, the tokens will vest linearly over 4 years, and anyone can permissionlessly trigger `releaseStream` to push any vested tokens into a pass-through wallet (this must be done per vesting stream)

> All donated tokens are thus forced to vest - there is no way to do anything with them until they are vested into the pass-through wallet.

Reviewer: We could perhaps remove this given we link to the more exhaustive Splits docs?

Author: Keeping for now for consistency, since we have a "how it works" summary for each contract sub-section here, and maybe it's helpful for a high-level overview!

### Pass-Through Wallet

- Contract address: [0x2E1A2823B6e65e6AC46BaD6e0Cc4096976Fc265E](https://app.splits.org/accounts/0x2E1A2823B6e65e6AC46BaD6e0Cc4096976Fc265E/?chainId=1)
- Official documentation: [https://docs.splits.org/core/pass-through](https://docs.splits.org/core/pass-through)

All funds from the vesting contract go into a pass-through wallet (PTW), which pools vested tokens to be pushed to the split contract.

> The PTW allows the Guild’s membership to make arbitrary calls with vested tokens if needed, since the current split contract does not have arbitrary call functionality.

Reviewer: I'd add a note about how this allows the DAO to deal with malicious donations or redirect funds to a new split in the case where the deployed one was compromised, and re-emphasize this cannot touch vesting tokens.

Author: We can talk more about this on next ops call, for now I've re-emphasized we cannot touch vesting tokens

**How it works:**

> - The PTW has a permissionless `passThrough` function, which allows anyone to push vested funds accumulated in the PTW to the so-called `passThrough` recipient, which is the Guild’s split contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The PTW has a permissionless `passThrough` function, which allows anyone to push vested funds accumulated in the PTW to the contract's `passThrough`, which is set to the Guild’s split contract, `0xd4aD8dAbA9eE5ef16Bb931d1CbE63fb9e102eC10`. 
```

> - The PTWs owner (the Guild’s multisig), can pause / unpause the `passThrough` function at any time if there’s a need to move tokens via arbitrary calls instead

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The PTWs owner (the Guild’s multisig), can pause / unpause the contract by changing the the `paused` value, allowing the owner to move specific tokens using arbitrary calls instead. 
```

**How split updates work:**
- Membership changes are ratified once a quarter with a vote in the Guild’s Moloch V3 DAO, where new members are added / old members are removed in an onchain “Signal Proposal”
- Once the DAO proposal is executed, the Guild’s 6/10 multisig exports the offchain membership registry (with member addresses and weights), and uploads it as a CSV into the split contract to update it

### Moloch v3 DAO

- Contract address: [0x412a32dd71357bd12337f4408168df903f90cbd3](https://admin.daohaus.club/#/molochv3/0x1/0x412a32dd71357bd12337f4408168df903f90cbd3/members)
- Official documentation: [https://moloch.daohaus.fun/](https://moloch.daohaus.fun/)

The Guild uses [DAOhaus'](https://daohaus.club/) Moloch V3 contracts for onchain governance. The DAO includes all Guild members, with one person one vote, including vote delegation.

The DAO does not keep track of member weights, nor does it hold any funds. Currently, it is only used to ratify changes to the membership onchain. These changes are then processed by the Guild’s multisig (by updating the split contract).

> In the future, the Moloch DAO will also be used to control + update the Split contract directly (instead of the multisig).

Reviewer: I'd remove this for now given you touch on it in the section below.
